# Notes

Goals for today:

1. Decide on categorical metadata for clustering
2. Try clustering images by features and see how much artifcat influences the results
3. Work on trying some of the image models 
4. Finally work on combining image features with metadata for recsys model


1. Categorical Metadata

- contributor: generally used for name/related names such as photographer, author, etc. but is distinct from names in subject field. For these images, this fields usually cites the photographer or copyright claimant
- coordinates: a text version of geographical coordinates; typically drawn from a MARC field
- date: a date chosen from all available dates to be the sortable date. Can be the creation date, publication date, or a date referenced in the item depending on website target and cataloging; entries in this field could be formatted as a year or YYYY-MM-DD. Items are sortable by this date.
- dates*: List of dates related to the item. In ISO 8601 format, UTC. Items are facetable by these dates.
- description: often includes a short, summary description of the original physical item written to accompany the item in a list of search results; for these images, descriptions can be created from MARC records content and/or pulled from the [Prints and Photographs Online Catalog](https://www.loc.gov/pictures/)
- extract_timestamp: timestamp of most recent ETL process
- latlong: latitude and longitude from a lookup table based on the location cited in the catalog record
- location: place(s) related to the item. These are extracted from subject headings and other metadata, so there may be duplicates.
- locations: locations expressed as searches in facets
- lonlat: latitude and longitude from a lookup table based on the location cited in the catalog record
- partof: collections, divisions, units in the Library of Congress, or any of a number of less formal groupings and subgroupings used for organizing content.
- shelf-id: primary sorting field of item records; variously derived based on website target; for these images, shelf id contains the unique call number citation for the item in the Prints & Photographs Division
- subject: list of subjects. These are separated elements of the Library of Congress Subject Headings. Geography is not shown here, see the location element.
- timestamp: time record inserted in the web index
- item.call_number
- item.contributors
- item.created_published
- item.created_published_date
- item.creator*:
- item.creators
- item.contributor_names*:
- item.date
- item.formats
- item.genre
- item.location
- item.medium
- item.mediums
- item.place
- item.sort_date
- item.source_created
- item.subject_headings
- item.subjects
- item.summary
- related.group_record
